#421 contributing.md first draft (#489)
Klimatbyran/klimatkollen: doc/contributing.md

## How to get in touch

The best way to get in touch with us is through the discord (link in README). It's a very active server and all the discussions happen there, as well as many other day-to-day updates. You can also email at hej@klimatkollen.se.

## Guide: How to make your first contribution

### Step 1. Find something to work on.

Either pick an issue from the GitHub issues tab, or create a new one to describe your suggestion/idea/bug report. 

If you are creating a new issue, make sure to look for similar ones first. Use the search function!

Issues labelled "good first issue" are the best to start with if you are new to the project. 

### Step 2. Let others know you're working on it.

> Once you decide to pick an issue up, leave a coment saying so, to avoid others starting on the same one at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you decide to pick an issue up, leave a comment saying so, to avoid others starting on the same one at the same time.
```

Run `git log -1` to see the latest commit in your local repo, and make sure this is the same as the `staging` branch on GitHub. This is to make sure you are up to date on everyone's changes. 

(optional but recommended) Run `git checkout -b <issue-id>`, replacing `<issue-id>` with the id of the issue or another good name, to create a branch for you changes.

Make the code changes you would like to address the issue you are working on. It doesn't have to be perfect on first attempt, a prototype showing how an issue can be partially solved is already a step in the right direction. 

Commit your work. You can make multiple commits if you like, and we don't enforce any particular style commit messages.

### Don't forget!

Your code contribution must not introduce new warnings or errors, or reduce the quality of the code. We will check this as part of review, but you can make the process faster by making sure we won't find anything. 

Checklist before finishing your PR:

[ ] Run `npm run build` to compile all pages. Make sure there are no new warnings or errors.
[ ] Run `npm run lint` - same story.

> [ ] Actually run the site locally and click through a few pages. Particularly focus on the places where you made your changes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ ] Run `npm run preview` to test the site locally and click through a few pages. Particularly focus on the places where you made your changes. 
```

Also consider what it will be like for someone else to read your code. Will they be able to read it and understand what's going on? 

### Step 4. Publish your work.

Push your commits to your fork of Klimatkollen. If you haven't created a fork already, use the "fork" button on GitHub and then add your fork as a remote by running `git remote add my-fork <git address of your fork>` where `my-fork` is an arbitrary name for the fork locally. 

Create a pull request. Either follow the link git showed after pushing to your fork, or create it from the GitHub web interface. Double check the branches in the PR! Make sure your are merging from your own branch, on your own repo, into "staging" on "klimatkollen". A common mistake is to accidentally start merging into "staging" on your own repo.

> Put "Fixes #XXX" with the id of the issue your are fixing as the title of your PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the PR desscription, write "Fixes #XXX" where XXX is the id of the issue you are fixing. E.g. `Fixes #413`
```

If the PR is not ready for review yet, prefix the title wiht "Draft: ". Remove this once you're ready.

> In the body, describe the changes you have made, what you have done to test your work, if there's anything you're unsure about, or if some parts of the code are unfinished. Focus on the changes and how they address the issues - but try to keep discussion of the issue itsel, in the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the body, describe the changes you have made, what you have done to test your work, if there's anything you're unsure about, or if some parts of the code are unfinished. Focus on the changes and how they address the issues - but try to keep discussion of the issue itself, in the issue.
```
